Creating a Street Network

A street network is a set of interconnected polylines with associated attributes
describing street names, address ranges, municipality, zipcode, one-way status,
speed and width and type of roadway. Other information may be linked to the network
by address, intersection, on street/from street and milepoint.

An intersection table is automatically created from the polylines and may have attributes
associated with it such as flow control and types of turns permitted.

Markers (Mileposts) may be added to the network to allow attributes stored by milepoint
to be located along the network.

The street network will support applications such as address and intersection location,
highway inventory management (sign inventories, pavement management, etc.), accident
reduction projects and routing applications.

Graphically the smallest component of the street network is the street segment. It is a
single polyline, with its own unique reference number, which defines a portion of a road
between two intersections or between an intersection and a dead-end. A segment would only
pass through an intersection if there is really no connection between the
roads (i.e an underpass or overpass). The most common situation consists of a single
polyline between intersections, however multiple polylines may be used to split a street
at other features (such as railroad and rive crossings) or where the basic characteristics of
the road change (i.e. type of road, municipality or zipcode).

Each street segment has a corrosponding record in the street segment table containing the
basic attributes of that segment. These attributes are the street names (up to 4), address
ranges, left/right municipality, left/right zipcode, street type and width, one-way status
and speed limit. Other data may be linked to the streets without regard to the definition
of the segments via dynamic segmentation. A secondary table called the actual address table
may or may not have entries for a given street segment. This table allows specific addresses
to be more accuratly located along the segment. 

A path is a series of connected street segments sharing the same street name. One street segment
may be included in up to four paths. Mile markers may be applied to paths to allow other data
to be linked to the street network via street and milepoint.

Defining the Network

The polylines defining the street segments should first be loaded into a plt file either by
translation from another format or via the digitizing funtions. These polylines should begin
and end at intersections or where basic characteristics of the road change. Other breaks
may be placed at other significant points if desired. The basic attributes of each segment
may be entered while digitizing or may be added after the digitizing is complete.

The connectivity of the polylines should be checked after all are completed by using the
walkout route function to traverse the entire network beginning at any desired point. The
route file generated can be used to color the map to indicate non-traversed segments (not
connected to the rest of the network) and dead-end segments (connected at only one end).
The non-connected segments should be fixed and the dead-ends checked to verify that they
are valid.

Next the street names should be assigned to all segments if not done during
the digitizing (or import) process. The STRTNAME theme should be used to 
verify that all segments have names. The ?? theme can also be used to display
the names on the segments to verify that they have been correctly assigned.

Once the names have been assigned, the network itself can be created. To do
this first run the walkout route function again. This identifies all
connections and intersections in the network. The build paths function uses
this data to create the network paths. Execute it next. Lastly run the create
intersections function to build the intersection table.

At this point milepoints may be assigned, the functions which locate data
via street intersections will work and the routing functions are operable.

To use the network based address location functions you must next create
the network address data. This consists of at least segment address ranges
and optionally, zipcodes, municipalities and actual addresses.

